In a blog post, OpenAI stated that "Elon understood the mission did not imply open-sourcing AGI." In a staff memo, they also denied being a de facto Microsoft subsidiary.
More recently, in 2022, OpenAI published its approach to the alignment problem, anticipating that aligning AGI to human values would likely be harder than aligning current AI systems: "Unaligned AGI could pose substantial risks to humanity and solving the AGI alignment problem could be so difficult that it will require all of humanity to work together".
It also announced that an associated API, named simply "the API", would form the heart of its first commercial product.
On March 14, 2023, OpenAI released GPT-4, both as an API (with a waitlist) and as a feature of ChatGPT Plus.
This collaboration allows OpenAI to access Reddit's Data API, providing real-time, structured content to enhance AI tools and user engagement with Reddit communities.
The partnership aligns with Reddit's commitment to privacy, adhering to its Public Content Policy and existing Data API Terms, which restrict commercial use without approval.
In June 2020, OpenAI announced a multi-purpose API which it said was "for accessing new AI models developed by OpenAI" to let developers call on it for "any English language AI task".
Like its predecessor, the GPT-3 trained model was not immediately released to the public for concerns of possible abuse, although OpenAI planned to allow access through a paid cloud API after a two-month free private beta that began in June 2020.
In August 2021, an API was released in private beta.
OpenAI announced that they would discontinue support for Codex API on March 23, 2023.
Its API costs $0.15 per million input tokens and $0.60 per million output tokens, compared to $5 and $15 respectively for GPT-4o.
As of March 2021, no API or code is available.
OpenAI also makes GPT-4 available to a select group of applicants through their GPT-4 API waitlist; after being accepted, an additional fee of US$0.03 per 1000 tokens in the initial text provided to the model ("prompt"), and US$0.06 per 1000 tokens that the model generates ("completion"), is charged for access to the version of the model with an 8192-token context window; for the 32768-token context window, the prices are doubled.
Their departures along with several researchers leaving the group, led OpenAI to absorb the team's work into other research areas, and officially shut down the superalignment group.
OpenAI is an American artificial intelligence (AI) research organization founded in December 2015 and headquartered in San Francisco, California.
As a leading organization in the ongoing AI boom, OpenAI is known for the GPT family of large language models, the DALL-E series of text-to-image models, and a text-to-video model named Sora.
Its release of ChatGPT in November 2022 has been credited with catalyzing widespread interest in generative AI.
In 2016, OpenAI paid corporate-level (rather than nonprofit-level) salaries, but did not pay AI researchers salaries comparable to those of Facebook or Google.
Microsoft's Peter Lee stated that the cost of a top AI researcher exceeds the cost of a top NFL quarterback prospect.
OpenAI's potential and mission drew these researchers to the firm; a Google employee said he was willing to leave Google for OpenAI "partly because of the very strong group of people and, to a very large extent, because of its mission." Brockman stated that "the best thing that I could imagine doing was moving humanity closer to building real AI in a safe way." OpenAI co-founder Wojciech Zaremba stated that he turned down "borderline crazy" offers of two to three times his market value to join OpenAI instead.
Nvidia gifted its first DGX-1 supercomputer to OpenAI in August 2016 to help it train larger and more complex AI models with the capability of reducing processing time from six days to two hours.
In December 2016, OpenAI released "Universe", a software platform for measuring and training an AI's general intelligence across the world's supply of games, websites, and other applications.
In 2018, Musk resigned from his Board of Directors seat, citing "a potential future conflict " with his role as CEO of Tesla due to Tesla's AI development for self-driving cars.
The transition from a nonprofit to a capped-profit company was viewed with skepticism by Oren Etzioni of the nonprofit Allen Institute for AI, who agreed that wooing top researchers to a nonprofit is difficult, but stated "I disagree with the notion that a nonprofit can't compete" and pointed to successful low-budget projects by OpenAI and others. "If bigger and better funded was always better, then IBM would still be number one."
Some researchers have argued that OpenAI Global, LLC's switch to for-profit status is inconsistent with OpenAI's claims to be "democratizing" AI.
In December 2022, OpenAI received widespread media coverage after launching a free preview of ChatGPT, its new AI chatbot based on GPT-3.5.
Google announced a similar AI application (Bard), after ChatGPT was launched, fearing that ChatGPT could threaten Google's place as a go-to source for information.
On February 7, 2023, Microsoft announced that it was building AI technology based on the same foundation as ChatGPT into Microsoft Bing, Edge, Microsoft 365 and other products.
On March 3, 2023, Reid Hoffman resigned from his board seat, citing a desire to avoid conflicts of interest with his investments in AI companies via Greylock Partners, and his co-founding of the AI startup Inflection AI.
They propose creating an international watchdog organization similar to IAEA to oversee AI systems above a certain capability threshold, suggesting that relatively weak AI systems on the other side should not be overly regulated.
In July 2023, OpenAI launched the superalignment project, aiming to find within 4 years how to align future superintelligences by automating alignment research using AI.
In August 2023, it was announced that OpenAI had acquired the New York-based start-up Global Illumination, a company that deploys AI to develop digital infrastructure and creative tools.
In October 2023, Sam Altman and Peng Xiao, CEO of the Emirati AI firm G42, announced Open AI would let G42 deploy Open AI technology.
On November 6, 2023, OpenAI launched GPTs, allowing individuals to create customized versions of ChatGPT for specific purposes, further expanding the possibilities of AI applications across various industries.
Three senior OpenAI researchers subsequently resigned: director of research and GPT-4 lead Jakub Pachocki, head of AI risk Aleksander Madry, and researcher Szymon Sidor.
On November 20, 2023, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella announced Altman and Brockman would be joining Microsoft to lead a new advanced AI research team, but added that they were still committed to OpenAI despite recent events.
According to sources within OpenAI, Q* is aimed at developing AI capabilities in logical and mathematical reasoning, and reportedly involves performing math on the level of grade-school students.
On February 29, 2024, OpenAI and CEO Sam Altman were sued by Elon Musk, who accused them of prioritizing profits over public good, contrary to OpenAI's original mission of developing AI for humanity's benefit.
The lawsuit cited OpenAI's policy shift after partnering with Microsoft, questioning its open-source commitment and stirring the AI ethics-vs.-profit debate.
This collaboration allows OpenAI to access Reddit's Data API, providing real-time, structured content to enhance AI tools and user engagement with Reddit communities.
Additionally, Reddit plans to develop new AI-powered features for users and moderators using OpenAI's platform.
On May 22, 2024, OpenAI entered into an agreement with News Corp to integrate news content from The Wall Street Journal, the New York Post, The Times, and The Sunday Times into its AI platform.
Meanwhile, other publications like The New York Times chose to sue OpenAI and Microsoft for copyright infringement over the use of their content to train AI models.
On May 29, 2024, Axios reported that OpenAI had signed deals with Vox Media and The Atlantic to share content to enhance the accuracy of AI models like ChatGPT by incorporating reliable news sources, addressing concerns about AI misinformation.
The Vox Union stated, "As both journalists and workers, we have serious concerns about this partnership, which we believe could adversely impact members of our union, not to mention the well-documented ethical and environmental concerns surrounding the use of generative AI."
They call for greater transparency, whistleblower protections, and legislative regulation of AI development.
In July 2024, Reuters reported that OpenAI was working on a project code-named "Strawberry" (previously known as Q*) aiming to enhance AI reasoning capabilities.
The project reportedly seeks to enable AI to plan ahead, navigate the internet autonomously, and conduct "deep research".
On August 5th, TechCrunch reported that OpenAI's cofounder John Schulman has left the company to join rival AI startup Anthropic.
Schulman cited a desire to focus more deeply on AI alignment research as his reason for the move.
Some scientists, such as Stephen Hawking and Stuart Russell, have articulated concerns that if advanced AI gains the ability to redesign itself at an ever-increasing rate, an unstoppable "intelligence explosion" could lead to human extinction.
Co-founder Musk characterizes AI as humanity's "biggest existential threat".
Musk and Altman have stated they are partly motivated by concerns about AI safety and the existential risk from artificial general intelligence.
OpenAI states that "it's hard to fathom how much human-level AI could benefit society," and that it is equally difficult to comprehend "how much it could damage society if built or used incorrectly".
Research on safety cannot safely be postponed: "because of AI's surprising history, it's hard to predict when human-level AI might come within reach." OpenAI states that AI "should be an extension of individual human wills and, in the spirit of liberty, as broadly and evenly distributed as possible." Co-chair Sam Altman expects the decades-long project to surpass human intelligence.
In the early years before his 2018 departure, Musk posed the question: "What is the best thing we can do to ensure the future is good? We could sit on the sidelines or we can encourage regulatory oversight, or we could participate with the right structure with people who care deeply about developing AI in a way that is safe and is beneficial to humanity." He acknowledged that "there is always some risk that in actually trying to advance (friendly) AI we may create the thing we are concerned about"; but nonetheless, that the best defense was "to empower as many people as possible to have AI.
If everyone has AI powers, then there's not any one person or a small set of individuals who can have AI superpower."
Musk and Altman's counterintuitive strategy—that of trying to reduce of harm from AI by giving everyone access to it—is controversial among those concerned with existential risk from AI.
More recently, in 2022, OpenAI published its approach to the alignment problem, anticipating that aligning AGI to human values would likely be harder than aligning current AI systems: "Unaligned AGI could pose substantial risks to humanity and solving the AGI alignment problem could be so difficult that it will require all of humanity to work together".
They stated that they intended to explore how to better use human feedback to train AI systems, and how to safely use AI to incrementally automate alignment research.
It sought to standardize how environments were defined in AI research publications, so that published research became more easily reproducible, and to provide users with a simple interface.
OpenAI Five's mechanisms in Dota 2's bot player shows the challenges of AI systems in multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) games and how OpenAI Five has demonstrated the use of deep reinforcement learning (DRL) agents to achieve superhuman competence in Dota 2 matches.
In June 2020, OpenAI announced a multi-purpose API which it said was "for accessing new AI models developed by OpenAI" to let developers call on it for "any English language AI task".
Announced in mid-2021, Codex is a descendant of GPT-3 that has additionally been trained on code from 54 million GitHub repositories, and is the AI powering the code autocompletion tool GitHub Copilot.
OpenAI expects it to be particularly useful for enterprises, startups and developers seeking to automate services with AI agents.
The purpose is to research whether such an approach may assist in auditing AI decisions and in developing explainable AI.
It combines traditional search engine features with generative AI capabilities.
Stargate is reported to be part of a series of AI-related construction projects planned in the next few years by the companies Microsoft and OpenAI.
These annotations were used to train an AI model to detect toxicity, which could then be used to moderate toxic content, notably from ChatGPT's training data and outputs.
OpenAI's former chief scientist Ilya Sutskever argued in 2023 that open-sourcing increasingly capable models was increasingly risky, and that the safety reasons for not open-sourcing the most potent AI models would become "obvious" in a few years.
In April 2023, the EU's European Data Protection Board (EDPB) formed a dedicated task force on ChatGPT "to foster cooperation and to exchange information on possible enforcement actions conducted by data protection authorities" based on the "enforcement action undertaken by the Italian data protection authority against Open AI about the Chat GPT service".
ChatGPT reached 1 million users 5 days after its launch.
OpenAI's GPT Store, initially slated for a 2023 launch, is now deferred to an undisclosed date in early 2024, attributed likely to the leadership changes in November following the initial announcement.
The fourth phase should consist in a smaller OpenAI supercomputer, planned to launch around 2026.
Stargate is the fifth and final phase of the program, and will take five and six years to complete and is slated to launch around 2028.
The organization stated it would "freely collaborate" with other institutions and researchers by making its patents and research open to the public.
In April 2016, OpenAI released a public beta of "OpenAI Gym", its platform for reinforcement learning research.
Before the transition, public disclosure of the compensation of top employees at OpenAI was legally required.
On January 16, 2024, in response to intense scrutiny from regulators around the world, OpenAI announced the formation of a new Collective Alignment team that would aim to implement ideas from the public for ensuring its models would "align to the values of humanity." The move was from its public program launched in May 2023.
On February 15, 2024, OpenAI announced a text-to-video model named Sora, which it plans to release to the public at an unspecified date.
On February 29, 2024, OpenAI and CEO Sam Altman were sued by Elon Musk, who accused them of prioritizing profits over public good, contrary to OpenAI's original mission of developing AI for humanity's benefit.
The partnership aligns with Reddit's commitment to privacy, adhering to its Public Content Policy and existing Data API Terms, which restrict commercial use without approval.
Before becoming a team of five, the first public demonstration occurred at The International 2017, the annual premiere championship tournament for the game, where Dendi, a professional Ukrainian player, lost against a bot in a live one-on-one matchup.
The bots' final public appearance came later that month, where they played in 42,729 total games in a four-day open online competition, winning 99.4% of those games.
GPT-2 was announced in February 2019, with only limited demonstrative versions initially released to the public.
Like its predecessor, the GPT-3 trained model was not immediately released to the public for concerns of possible abuse, although OpenAI planned to allow access through a paid cloud API after a two-month free private beta that began in June 2020.
It was released to the public as a ChatGPT Plus feature in October.
OpenAI demonstrated some Sora-created high-definition videos to the public on February 15, 2024, stating that it could generate videos up to one minute long.
Despite skepticism from some academic leaders following Sora's public demo, notable entertainment-industry figures have shown significant interest in the technology's potential.
Philosopher Nick Bostrom said, "If you have a button that could do bad things to the world, you don't want to give it to everyone." During a 2016 conversation about technological singularity, Altman said, "We don't plan to release all of our source code" and mentioned a plan to "allow wide swaths of the world to elect representatives to a new governance board".
The set-up for Dactyl, aside from having motion tracking cameras, also has RGB cameras to allow the robot to manipulate an arbitrary object by seeing it.
Like its predecessor, the GPT-3 trained model was not immediately released to the public for concerns of possible abuse, although OpenAI planned to allow access through a paid cloud API after a two-month free private beta that began in June 2020.
Its mission is to develop "safe and beneficial" artificial general intelligence, which it defines as "highly autonomous systems that outperform humans at most economically valuable work".
It also provides computing resources to OpenAI through its Microsoft Azure cloud platform.
In April 2016, OpenAI released a public beta of "OpenAI Gym", its platform for reinforcement learning research.
In December 2016, OpenAI released "Universe", a software platform for measuring and training an AI's general intelligence across the world's supply of games, websites, and other applications.
Since then, OpenAI systems have run on an Azure-based supercomputing platform from Microsoft.
Additionally, Reddit plans to develop new AI-powered features for users and moderators using OpenAI's platform.
On May 22, 2024, OpenAI entered into an agreement with News Corp to integrate news content from The Wall Street Journal, the New York Post, The Times, and The Sunday Times into its AI platform.
On June 24, 2024, OpenAI acquired Multi, a startup running a collaboration platform based on Zoom.
Released in 2018, Gym Retro is a platform for reinforcement learning (RL) research on video games, using RL algorithms and study generalization.
The automated transcription of YouTube videos raised concerns within OpenAI employees regarding potential violations of YouTube's terms of service, which prohibit the use of videos for applications independent of the platform, as well as any type of automated access to its videos.
On February 7, 2023, Microsoft announced that it was building AI technology based on the same foundation as ChatGPT into Microsoft Bing, Edge, Microsoft 365 and other products.
This collaboration allows OpenAI to access Reddit's Data API, providing real-time, structured content to enhance AI tools and user engagement with Reddit communities.
On June 24, 2024, OpenAI acquired Multi, a startup running a collaboration platform based on Zoom.
